US immigration officials questioning 5 arrested, more than 100 found at Houston 'stash house'
Authorities search people, Wednesday, March 19, 2014, in southeast Houston. A house overflowing with more than 100 people presumed to be in the U.S. illegally was uncovered just outside Houston on Wednesday, a police spokesman said. The suspected stash house was found during a search for a 24-year-old woman and her two children that were reported missing by relatives Tuesday after a man failed to meet them, said a spokesman for the Houston Police Department. (AP Photo/Houston Chronicle, Cody Duty)The Associated PressPeople wait outside a house as authorities hold an investigation, Wednesday, March 19, 2014, in southeast Houston. A house overflowing with more than 100 people presumed to be in the United States illegally was uncovered just outside Houston on Wednesday, a police spokesman said. The suspected stash house was found during a search for a 24-year-old woman and her two children that were reported missing by relatives Tuesday after a man failed to meet them, said a spokesman for the Houston Police Department. (AP Photo/Houston Chronicle, Cody Duty)The Associated PressPeople wait outside a house, Wednesday, March 19, 2014, in southeast Houston. A house overflowing with more than 100 people presumed to be in the United States illegally was uncovered just outside Houston on Wednesday, a police spokesman said. The suspected stash house was found during a search for a 24-year-old woman and her two children that were reported missing by relatives Tuesday after a man failed to meet them, said a spokesman for the Houston Police Department. (AP Photo/Houston Chronicle, Cody Duty)The Associated PressHOUSTON –  U.S. immigration authorities are questioning more than 100 people presumed to be in the country illegally after they were discovered crammed into a small house in south Houston.Five men also are in custody and being questioned after the discovery Wednesday of the so-called stash hash.ADVERTISEMENTADVERTISEMENTU.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials say charges against the five include hostage taking and conspiracy to harbor illegal immigrants.The 115 people were found jammed into a filthy 1,500-square-foot home with no hot water and just one toilet. It was not immediately clear how the people got there, but police say one woman told them she'd been there 15 days.Authorities said Thursday that they weren't yet certain whether the people would be deported. Most are from El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala and Mexico.